.TH dutil 1 "16 Jun 1998" "dmsdos 0.9.1.3" "dmsdos utilities"
.SH NAME
dutil \- dmsdos hacker's utility
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI dutil " directory [command [options ...]]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Perform 
.I command
on the CVF that is mounted under
.I directory.
In fact,
.I directory
may be also a subdirectory of the mountpoint.

If no
.I command
is given, general information about the CVF is printed.


.B List of commands


.B cluster \- print cluster information

.B sector \- read raw sector from disk and hexdump it

.B rrawcluster \- read raw cluster from disk and hexdump it

.B rcluster \- read and decompress cluster and hexdump it

.B bitfat \- print bitfat content

.B setcomp \- change compression format

.B setcf \- change compression level

.B dumpcache \- dump cache information to syslog

.B synccache \- write dirty clusters to disk immediately

.B logstat \- dump statistics to syslog

.B checkfs \- check filesystem tables

.B setloglevel \- change dmsdos log level

.B setspeedup \- change dmsdos speedup flags

.B memory \- report dmsdos memory usage for caching


.B The commands in detail


.B dutil directory cluster 
.I clusternr

Print information about cluster
.I clusternr.

.B dutil directory sector
.I sectornr [file]

Read raw sector
.I sectornr
from disk and print it as hexdump. If
.I file
is given, it is written to a binary file (raw, not as hexdump).

.B dutil directory rrawcluster
.I clusternr [file]

Read raw cluster data from cluster
.I clusternr
from disk and print it as hexdump. If
.I file
is given, it is written to a binary file (raw, not as hexdump).
The cluster data are not decompressed. This command does not work for
fragmented or suballocated clusters and may return complete garbage
in these cases.

.B dutil directory rcluster
.I clusternr [file]

Read and decompress cluster
.I clusternr
from disk and print it as hexdump. If
.I file
is given, it is written to a binary file (raw, not as hexdump).

.B dutil directory bitfat
.I sectornr

Read bitfat allocation information of sector
.I sectornr
from disk and print it.

.B dutil directory setcomp
.I value

Set compression scheme for write access.
.I value 
must be one out of
.B guess ds00 ds01 ds02 jm00 jm01 sq00 sd3 sd4 .
See the dmsdos driver documentation about compression schemes.

.B dutil directory setcf
.I value

Set compression level for write access.
.I value 
must be one out of the range
.BR 1 " - " 12.
A higher level means better but slower compression.

.B dutil directory dumpcache

Dump dmsdos cache information to syslog.

.B dutil directory synccache
.I [value]

Write dirty clusters back to disk immediately. If
.I value 
is given and not zero, the data may be passed to the compression
daemon instead of written directly to disk. Otherwise the command
waits until the data are compressed and written. If you want to ensure
physical write access to disk also 
.BR sync(1) 
the buffer cache.

.B dutil directory logstat

Write dmsdos statistics to syslog.

.B dutil directory checkfs
.I [value]

Check the CVF internal tables for inconsistencies. If
.I value 
is given and not zero, try to repair errors.

.B dutil directory setloglevel
.I value

Set the dmsdos driver log level.
.I value 
must be a decimal or a 0x prefixed hexadecimal number.
See the dmsdos driver documentation for details about log levels.

.B dutil directory setspeedup
.I value

Set the dmsdos driver speedup flags.
.I value 
must be a decimal or a 0x prefixed hexadecimal number.
See the dmsdos driver documentation for details about the speedup flags.

.B dutil directory memory

Report how much memory the dmsdos driver currently uses for caching.

.SH BUGS

The dutil commands for reading data from disk operate at a lower level than
the dmsdos cluster cache.
.I You must disable dmsdos write-back caching or sync the dmsdos cluster 
.I cache before each operation to get correct results in all cases.


.SH SEE ALSO

Refer to the dmsdos main documentation for further information.
